docs: structure of a AsyncAPI document (#1922)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/concepts/asyncapi-document/structure.md

> ---

Reviewer: You did an excellent job breaking down these complex concepts into manageable chunks of information, @TRohit20! Just a few notes...  ✌🏽

----

1. **Description of the `servers` object:** I noticed that the `protocolVersion`, `title`, `summary`, `security`, `tags`, `externalDocs`, and `bindings` fields are mentioned in the textual explanation, but they are not present in the visual representation (Mermaid graph) or the code example of the `server` object. You might want to update the Mermaid graph and the code example to include them. 

2. **Consistency in the code examples:** You've used a single server as an example in the code example for the `servers` object. In contrast, the code example for the `channels` object provides a more comprehensive example that includes multiple fields. You might also want to provide a more detailed code example to enhance the clarity of the `servers` object. 

3. **Spelling Inconsistency in the `components` Mermaid graph:** The graph capitalizes `Category` and `Tag`, but that seems like a spelling mistake. 

4. **Inconsistent spelling in headers:** Remember that we capitalize our headers in _sentence_ case, not every word. Please correct your headers that do not observe sentence capitalization.

---

> title: AsyncAPI Structure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: AsyncAPI document structure
```

weight: 32
---

> The structure of a AsyncAPI document can be defined as a specific format in which the document of the specification is to be written. An AsyncAPI document may be made up of a single document or be divided into multiple, connected parts at your discretion. In the latter case, Reference Objects are used. The structure of a AsyncAPI document has certain fields that need to be followed and implemented.

Reviewer 2: >The structure of a AsyncAPI document can be defined as a specific format in which the document of the specification is to be written.

I would align this with https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/1868/files#r1246412576

Author: Do you mean, we should have a unique description of AsyncAPI document to begin with then lead to the definition of what is the structure of a asyncapi document and so on ?

Reviewer 2: Yes

Author: In that case, maybe I should wait for @alequetzalli to do that and incorporate the same or how do you suggest we move forward with this?

Reviewer 2: For the record, and as commented in the call, it's up to you and @alequetzalli to decide how to proceed in order to keep consistency between docs.

Reviewer: Heyooo 😄, great discussion point, so glad Sergio brought this up!

1. @TRohit20, Sergio is spot on in recommending we stick to one definition for `AsyncAPI document`, so that we don't end up with misc docs defining that term differently. 
2. That said, **this doc focuses on `document structure`,** _not_ introducing the `AsyncAPI document`. Thus, we must remove your sentences defining `AsyncAPI document` because that is not needed in this doc. _(Remember: we will define `AsyncAPI document` in the `introduction.md` doc that I am writing under https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/1868](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/1868)_

> Structure of a AsyncAPI document lays out the blueprint for you to write down your specification based on your application. 

Reviewer 2: For clarity purpose
```suggestion
This document lays out the blueprint for you to write down your specification based on your application. 
```

## Root Elements 

> Root elements of an AsyncAPI document provide an overview of the API's characteristics and behavior. These root elements collectively define the structure, metadata, channels, components and more of a AsyncAPI document. They provide a comprehensive overview of the API's characteristics and behavior.

Reviewer 2: > define the structure,

What do we mean by "the structure"  here?

Author: "the structure" in this context are the certain fields that shape the certain object or the properties in a AsyncAPI document.

Reviewer 2: From https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/latest#A2SObject :

> This is the root document object for the API specification. It combines resource listing and API declaration together into one document.

I just feel the word `structure` doesn't fit well because we are talking about the resources/objects the whole document contain instead.

Author: So would you like to simply remove it?

> Root elements of an AsyncAPI document provide an overview of the API's characteristics and behavior. These root elements collectively define the structure, metadata, endpoints, channels, components and more of a AsyncAPI document. They provide a comprehensive overview of the API's characteristics and behavior.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Root elements of an AsyncAPI document provide an overview of the API's characteristics and behavior. These root elements collectively define the structure, metadata, channels, components and more of a AsyncAPI document. They provide a comprehensive overview of the API's characteristics and behavior.
```

Channels are endpoints. I'd not use the word endpoint as it's very tied to the HTTP world and can be confusing.

Author: Makes sense. We do not want to give ambiguous information so going with your suggestion

```mermaid
graph LR
A[asyncapi]
B[info]
C[servers]
D[channels]
E[operations]
F[components]

A --> B
A --> C
A --> D
A --> E
A --> F
```

### `Info` object
The `info` object in an AsyncAPI document provides essential information about the API in the form of fields such as title, version, description, contact details and license. It serves as metadata that gives consumers a high-level understanding of the API's purpose and functionality.

The purpose of the `info` object is to provide descriptive and contact information about the specific API. It helps developers, architects, and other stakeholders quickly identify and comprehend the API's characteristics without diving into the technical details. Plus, `info` is a required component of the AsyncAPI document and often the first point of reference for users exploring the API documentation.

> The `info` object includes properties such as:

Reviewer 2: I'm concerned about the maintainability of this doc. I would emphasize the fact those are **just some** of the fields but not all of them + add a link to the Info object of the latest spec. For reference https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/latest#infoObject

Same with the rest of objects.

Reviewer 2: I realize it is similar to @fmvilas comment https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/1922/files#r1260125025

Author: That makes sense. So should I go ahead and rephrase the sentence in each object as follows👇🏻?

Current- "The `info` object includes properties such as:"

Suggested: "Some of the fields `info` object holds are:"

Reviewer 2: > That makes sense. So should I go ahead and rephrase the sentence in each object as follows👇🏻?
> 
> Current- "The `info` object includes properties such as:"
> 
> Suggested: "Some of the fields `info` object holds are:"

I feel that sounds more accurate, yes.

Author: Alright making that change throughout the document.

> The `info` object includes properties such as:

Reviewer 2: For consistency, use either fields or properties but not both. This suggestion applies to the whole document.
```suggestion
The `info` object includes fields such as:
```

- `externalDocs`: Additional external documentation of the exposed API.

Here's a visual representation of the `info` object and its properties:
```mermaid
graph LR
  B(info)
  C(title)
  D(version)
  E(description)
  F(termsOfService)
  G(contact)
  J(license)
  M(tags)
  P((externalDocs))

  B --> C
  B --> D
  B --> E
  B --> F
  B --> G
  B --> J
  B --> M
  B --> P
```

Below is a example of the `info` object in the AsyncAPI document:
```yaml
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: My Event-Driven API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: This API provides real-time event streaming capabilities.
  termsOfService: https://example.com/terms-of-service
  contact:
    name: Rohit
    email: rohit@asyncapi.com
  license:
    name: Apache 2.0
    url: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
  tags:
    - name: Events
      description: APIs related to event streaming
    - name: Authentication
      description: APIs for authentication and authorization
  externalDocs:
    description: Additional documentation 
    url: https://example.com/docs
```

### `Servers` object

> The `servers` object in an AsyncAPI document is a map of `server` objects that defines the network endpoints or brokers that applications can connect to for exchanging messages. It specifies the details necessary to establish a connection, such as the protocol, host, port, and additional connection options. The `server` object is used to capture details such as URIs, protocols and security configuration. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `servers` object in an AsyncAPI document is a map of `server` objects that defines the network endpoints or brokers that applications can connect to for exchanging messages. It specifies the details necessary to establish a connection, such as the protocol, host, port, and additional connection options.
```

The last sentence sounds redundant to me.

The purpose of the `servers` object is to provide the necessary information for clients to connect to the message broker or server and participate in the message exchange or listen to the events. By defining multiple servers, the AsyncAPI document can accommodate different environments or deployment scenarios, such as production, staging, or development.

> The `servers` object typically includes the following properties(few are mandatory, few are optional) for each server:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `servers` object typically includes the following properties for each server:
```

I don't know how I feel about this extra clarification. We're never speaking about fields being mandatory or optional so I don't think we should here either. For that, we have the reference, right?

Author: To keep it consistent, It makes sense now to remove the extra information.

> - `host`: The server host name. It may include the port. This field supports Server Variables. 

Reviewer 3: My immediate thought here has been: people are going to ask themselves what are Server Variables. So we either link to a definition of them or completely remove it.

Author: In this case, we can either point them or direct them to a definition of serverVariables or doc covering it or remove the information altogether. Both the cases can be viable as even if the information provided is removed, it still won't affect the actual meaning or description of the property. It is extra information. So how would you suggest we move forward with this?

Reviewer 3: I would remove it. Best is to keep it simple IMHO. Then people can head over to the reference to learn all the details.

- `protocolVersion`: The version of the protocol used for connection.
- `pathname`: The path to a resource in the host.
- `description`: An optional string describing the server.
- `title`: A human-friendly title for the server.
- `summary`: A short summary of the server.
- `security`: A declaration of which security schemes can be used with this server. 
- `tags`: A list of tags for logical grouping and categorization of servers.
- `externalDocs`: Additional external documentation for this server.
- `bindings`: A map where the keys describe the name of the protocol and the values describe protocol-specific definitions for the server.

Here's a visual representation of the `server` object and its properties:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[server]
  B(host)
  C(pathname)
  D(protocol)
  E(description)

  A --> B
  A --> C
  A --> D
  A --> E
```

Here's a code example of the servers object with multiple servers in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml
host: rabbitmq.in.mycompany.com:5672
pathname: /production
protocol: amqp
description: Production RabbitMQ broker (uses the `production` vhost).
```

### `Channels` object

> The `channels` object in an AsyncAPI document hold the relative paths to the individual channels. Channel paths are relative to servers. The `channels` represents the communication pathways through which messages are exchanged. The `channel` object describes a shared communication channel. 

Reviewer 2: > The `channels` object in an AsyncAPI document hold the relative paths to the individual channels. Channel paths are relative to servers.

We dropped that description in v3 because it is not mandatory to be relative. See https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0-next-major-spec.12#channelObject

> The `channels` object in an AsyncAPI document hold the relative paths to the individual channels and their operations. Channel paths are relative to servers. The `channels` represents the communication pathways through which messages are exchanged. The `channel` object sescribes a shared communication channel. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `channels` object in an AsyncAPI document hold the relative paths to the individual channels. Channel paths are relative to servers. The `channels` represents the communication pathways through which messages are exchanged. The `channel` object describes a shared communication channel. 
```

Not anymore in v3. Later below we describe the `operations` object so we can skip it here.

The purpose of the `channels` object is to provide a structured way to define the messaging patterns and topics within the API. It allows API developers to specify the available channels, their purpose, and the expected message formats for communication. Consumers of the specific API can understand the supported message-based interactions and the corresponding data models.

The `channels` object typically includes properties for each channel, such as:

> - `address`: An *optional* string representation of this channel's address.

Reviewer 3: We should be consistent in the way we communicate that a field is optional. We should either remove it here or add it to other fields too.

Author: Will remove it here to make it more consistent and as you mentioned earlier, It makes to not mention about it since we have the reference for that

- `messages`: A map of the messages that will be sent to this channel by any application at any time.
- `title`: A human-readable title for the channel.
- `summary`: A short yet brief summary of the channel.
- `description`: A description of the channel, providing additional context and details of the message.
- `servers`: An array of `$ref` pointers to the definition of the servers in which this channel is available. If servers is absent or empty, this channel must be available on all the servers defined in the `Servers` Object. 
- `parameters`: A map of the parameters included in the channel address.
- `tags`: A list of tags for logical grouping of channels.
- `externalDocs`: Additional external documentation for this channel.
- `bindings`: A map where the keys describe the name of the protocol and the values describe protocol-specific definitions for the channel.

Here's a visual representation of the `channels` object and its properties:
```mermaid
graph LR

>   A[channels]

Reviewer 2: You are describing a channel and not channels here.

```suggestion
  A[channel]
```

  B(address)
  C(title)
  D(description)
  E(messages)
  H(parameters)
  J(servers)
  M(bindings)
  P(tags)
  R(externalDocs)

  A -->B
  A --> C
  A --> D
  A --> E
  A --> H
  A --> J
  A --> M
  A --> P
  A --> R
```

Here's a code example illustrating the structure of the channels object in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml
address: 'users.{userId}'
title: Users channel
description: This channel is used to exchange messages about user events.
messages:
  userSignedUp:
    $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
  userCompletedOrder:
    $ref: '#/components/messages/userCompletedOrder'
parameters:
  userId:
    $ref: '#/components/parameters/userId'
servers:
  - $ref: '#/servers/rabbitmqInProd'
  - $ref: '#/servers/rabbitmqInStaging'
bindings:
  amqp:
    is: queue
    queue:
      exclusive: true
tags:
  - name: user
    description: User-related messages
externalDocs:
  description: 'Find more info here'
  url: 'https://example.com'
```
### `Operations` object

> The `operations` object holds a dictionary with all the operations the application must implement. Each `operation` object define the specific operation that needs to be implemented. The `operations` object is located within the AsyncAPI document and is separate from the components/operations section, which is used for optional or additional operations that may or may not be implemented by the application.

Reviewer 2: I feel is redundant
```suggestion
The `operations` object holds a dictionary with all the operations the application must implement. The `operations` object is located within the AsyncAPI document and is separate from the components/operations section, which is used for optional or additional operations that may or may not be implemented by the application.
```

> The purpose of the `operations` object is to provide a clear and structured definition of the operations that an application must support within an event-driven API. It serves as a reference for developers, tools, and libraries to understand the required operations and their associated properties, allowing for better implementation, documentation, and code generation.

Reviewer 2: I feel this is rewording the same you mentioned in the previous lines. I would unify those.

Author: Will have a look and work on it.

- `channel`: A `$ref` pointer to the definition of the channel in which this operation is performed. 
- `title`:	A human-friendly title for the operation.
- `summary`: A short summary of what the operation is about.
- `description`: A verbose explanation of the operation. 
- `security`:	A declaration of which security schemes are associated with this operation.
- `tags`:	A list of tags for logical grouping and categorization of operations.
- `externalDocs`:	Additional external documentation for this operation.
- `bindings`	A map where the keys describe the name of the protocol and the values describe protocol-specific definitions for the operation.
- `traits`:	A list of traits to apply to the operation object. 
- `messages`:	A list of $ref pointers pointing to the supported Message Objects that can be processed by this operation.
- `reply`:	The definition of the reply in a request-reply operation.

Here's a visual representation of the `operations` object and its properties:
```mermaid
graph LR

>   A[operations]

Reviewer 2: You are describing an operation and not operations here.
```suggestion
  A[operation]
```

- `channels`: An object to hold reusable Channel Objects.
- `operations`: An object to hold reusable Operation Item Objects.
- `messages`: An object to hold reusable Message Objects.
- `securitySchemes`: An object to hold reusable Security Scheme Objects.
- `serverVariables`: An object to hold reusable Server Variable Objects.
- `parameters`: Contains reusable parameter objects that can be used in various parts of the AsyncAPI document.
- `correlationIds`: An object to hold reusable Correlation ID Objects.
- `replies`: An object to hold reusable Operation Reply Objects.
- `replyAddresses`: An object to hold reusable Operation Reply Address Objects.
- `externalDocs`: An object to hold reusable External Documentation Objects.
- `tags`: An object to hold reusable Tag Objects.
- `operationTraits`: An object to hold reusable Operation Trait Objects.
- `messageTraits`: Represents common traits or characteristics that can be applied to messages.
- `serverBindings`: An object to hold reusable Server Bindings Objects.
- `channelBindings`: An object to hold reusable Channel Bindings Objects.
- `operationBindings`: An object to hold reusable Operation Bindings Objects.

> - `messageBindings`: An object to hold reusable Message Bindings Objects.

Reviewer 3: Would be cool to link to these objects in the spec.

Author: Just to double check, Do you mean it would be nice to add links to the part/doc about each object. 

For instance, 
- `servers`: An object to hold reusable [Server](link to it) Objects.

Are you suggesting that I add a link to part talking about the `server` object? as demonstrated above ?

Reviewer 3: Yes, sorry. I meant doing something like this:

```
- `servers`: An object to hold reusable [Server Objects](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v2.6.0#serverObject).
```

Just so people can find more information about these objects in the reference.

  B --> C
  B --> D
  A --> G
  G --> H
  H --> I
  A --> L
  A --> P
  A --> U
  A --> W
  A --> Y
```

Here's a code example of the components object in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml
components:
  schemas:
    Category:
      type: object
      properties:
        id:
          type: integer
          format: int64
        name:
          type: string
    Tag:
      type: object
      properties:
        id:
          type: integer
          format: int64
        name:
          type: string
    AvroExample:
      schemaFormat: application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0
      schema:
        $ref: 'path/to/user-create.avsc/#UserCreate'
  servers:
    development:
      url: "{stage}.in.mycompany.com:{port}"
      description: RabbitMQ broker
      protocol: amqp
      protocolVersion: 0-9-1
      variables:
        stage:
          $ref: "#/components/serverVariables/stage"
        port:
          $ref: "#/components/serverVariables/port"
  serverVariables:
    stage:
      default: demo
      description: This value is assigned by the service provider, in this example `mycompany.com`
    port:
      enum: [5671, 5672]
      default: 5672
  channels:
    user/signedup:

>       subscribe:

Reviewer 2: This is not a valid channel object in v3. You can use the one you described [here](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/1922/files#diff-a8927db92ee3b3aeae4648a24b55a4091178117ac9ad24466491db1377c4fe15R175)

Author: Just to double check I got it correct, are you suggested I use the channel object described above as follows👇🏻?

Current:
"channels:
    user/signedup:
      subscribe:"

Suggested:
"channels:
     userSignedUp:
          subscribe:
          message:
          $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'

        message:
          $ref: "#/components/messages/userSignUp"
  messages:
    userSignUp:
      summary: Action to sign a user up.
      description: |
        Multiline description of what this action does.
        Here you have another line.
      tags:
        - name: user
        - name: signup
      headers:
        type: object
        properties:
          applicationInstanceId:
            description: Unique identifier for a given instance of the publishing application
            type: string
      payload:
        type: object
        properties:
          user:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/userCreate"
          signup:
            $ref: "#/components/schemas/signup"
  parameters:
    userId:
      description: Id of the user.
      schema:
        type: string
  correlationIds:
    default:
      description: Default Correlation ID
      location: $message.header#/correlationId
  messageTraits:
    commonHeaders:
      headers:
        type: object
        properties:
          my-app-header:
            type: integer
            minimum: 0
            maximum: 100

> ```

Reviewer 2: I see you added a diagram per each individual object but I miss one extra diagram containing all of them together. I mean one diagram showing the whole structure of an AsyncAPI document.

Author: I might be little off here but I think I have already done that in the root elements section as you can see here: https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/1922/files#diff-a8927db92ee3b3aeae4648a24b55a4091178117ac9ad24466491db1377c4fe15R11

Did I get it wrong and you wanted me to add a different diagram or ?

---
title: AsyncAPI document structure
weight: 32
---
The structure of a AsyncAPI document can be defined as a specific format in which the document of the specification is to be written. An AsyncAPI document may be made up of a single document or be divided into multiple, connected parts at your discretion. In the latter case, Reference Objects are used. The structure of a AsyncAPI document has certain fields that need to be followed and implemented.
This document lays out the blueprint for you to write down your specification based on your application. 

## Root Elements 
Root elements of an AsyncAPI document provide an overview of the API's characteristics and behavior. These root elements collectively define the structure, metadata, channels, components and more of a AsyncAPI document. They provide a comprehensive overview of the API's characteristics and behavior.

```mermaid

> graph LR

Author: Redirect the diagrams to individual objects if possible

Reviewer 2: I think you can achieve it by adding an `<a>` element. For instance:

```mermaid
graph LR
A[asyncapi]
B[<a href='#info-object'>info</a>]
C[<a href='#servers-object'>servers</a>]
D[<a href='#channels-object'>channels</a>]
E[<a href='#operations-object'>operations</a>]
F[<a href='#components-object'>components</a>]
A --> B
A --> C
A --> D
A --> E
A --> F
```

Reviewer: oooooh fancy smancy..

Author: Looks like redirecting to individual sections of the document isn't possible here unless we use the href tag and reference to a link. I tried referencing the way you suggested and some other ways but it doesn't seem to work, since this was a nice to have for the document, I'm resolving the conversation. :)

---
title: AsyncAPI document structure
weight: 60
---

> The structure of an AsyncAPI document is defined in a specific format and must follow [AsyncAPI specification](/docs/reference/specification/latest). The structure of an AsyncAPI document has certain fields that you need to follow, although not all of them are mandatory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The structure of an AsyncAPI document is defined in a specific format and must follow the [AsyncAPI specification](/docs/reference/specification/latest). The structure of an AsyncAPI document has certain fields that you need to follow, although not all of them are mandatory.
```

> ## Root Elements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Root elements
```

> Root elements of an AsyncAPI document provide an overview of the API's characteristics and behaviour. These root elements collectively define the metadata, channels, components and more of an AsyncAPI document. They provide a comprehensive overview of the API's characteristics and behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Root elements of an AsyncAPI document provide an overview of the API's characteristics and behavior. These root elements collectively define the metadata, channels, components, and more of an AsyncAPI document. They provide a comprehensive overview of the API's characteristics and behavior.
```

```mermaid
graph 
A[asyncapi]
B[info]
C[servers]
D[channels]
E[operations]
F[components]

A --> B
A --> C
A --> D
A --> E
A --> F
```

### `info` field

> With the `info` field you provide essential information about the API in the form of fields such as title, version, description, contact details and license. It serves as metadata that gives consumers a high-level understanding of the API's purpose and functionality. It helps developers, architects, and other stakeholders quickly identify and comprehend the API's characteristics without diving into the technical details. Plus, `info` is a required component of the AsyncAPI document and often the first point of reference for users exploring the API documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `info` field in an API document offers crucial metadata, including the API's title, version, description, contact details, and license. This field provides a comprehensive overview of the API, aiding developers, architects, and other stakeholders in quickly grasping its purpose and capabilities. As a mandatory element of the AsyncAPI specification, the `info` field often serves as the initial reference point for users navigating the API documentation.
```

> Some of the fields `info` field holds are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `info` field encompasses various fields such as:
```

> - `title`: The title of the API.
> - `version`: The version of the API.
> - `description`: A brief description explaining the purpose and features of the API.
> - `termsOfService`: The URL or document specifying the terms of service for using the API.
> - `contact`: Contact information for the owner or maintainer of the API, including name, email, and URL.
> - `license`: Information about the license under which the API is provided, including name and URL.
> - `tags`: A list of tags for application API documentation control. Tags can be used for logical grouping of applications.
> - `externalDocs`: Additional external documentation of the exposed API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `title`: API title.
- `version`: API version.
- `description`: Brief description describing the API's purpose and features.
- `termsOfService`: URL or document specifying the API's terms of service.
- `contact`: Contact information of the API's owner or maintainer (name, email, and URL).
- `license`: API's license information, including name and URL.
- `tags`: Tags for categorizing and organizing API documentation. Also used for grouping applications logically.
- `externalDocs`:  Links to additional, external documentation related to the API.
```

Here's a visual representation of the `info` field and its properties:
```mermaid
graph LR
  B(info)
  C(title)
  D(version)
  E(description)
  F(termsOfService)
  G(contact)
  J(license)
  M(tags)
  P(externalDocs)

  B --> C
  B --> D
  B --> E
  B --> F
  B --> G
  B --> J
  B --> M
  B --> P
```

Below is an example of the `info` field:
```yaml
info:
  title: My Event-Driven API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: This API provides real-time event streaming capabilities.
  termsOfService: https://example.com/terms-of-service
  contact:
    name: Rohit

>     email: rohit@asyncapi.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    email: rohitwashere@asyncapi.com
```

  license:
    name: Apache 2.0
    url: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
  tags:
    - name: Events
      description: APIs related to event streaming
    - name: Authentication
      description: APIs for authentication and authorization
  externalDocs:
    description: Additional documentation 
    url: https://example.com/docs
```

### `servers` field

> With the `servers` field you can provide a map of different servers that define the network endpoints or brokers that applications can connect to for exchanging messages. It specifies the details necessary to establish a connection, such as the protocol, host, port, and additional connection options. You can accommodate different environments or deployment scenarios, such as production, staging, or development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `servers` field allows you to detail a range of servers, outlining the network endpoints or message brokers to which applications can connect. That field includes vital connection information like protocol, host, port, and other options, facilitating connectivity across various environments such as production, staging, or development.
```

    description: Production RabbitMQ broker (uses the `production` vhost).
    title: Production Server
    summary: Production environment server
    security:
      - type: http
        scheme: bearer
    tags:
      - name: production
        description: Production environment
    externalDocs:
      description: Additional documentation for the production server
      url: https://example.com/docs/production
    bindings:
      amqp:
        exchange: my-exchange
        queue: my-queue
  staging:
    host: rabbitmq.in.mycompany.com:5672
    pathname: /v1
    protocol: amqp
    protocolVersion: "1.0"
    description: Staging RabbitMQ broker (uses the `staging` vhost).
    title: Staging Server
    summary: Staging environment server
    security:
      - type: apiKey
        in: user
        description: Provide your API key as the user and leave the password empty.
    tags:
      - name: staging
        description: Staging environment
    externalDocs:
      description: Additional documentation for the staging server
      url: https://example.com/docs/staging
    bindings:
      amqp:
        exchange: my-exchange
        queue: my-queue
```

### `channels` field

> With the `channels` field you can provide a map of different channels the application communicates with during runtime. The `channels` represent the communication pathways through which messages are exchanged. You can specify their purpose, address, and the expected message formats for communication. Consumers of the specific API can understand the supported message-based interactions and the corresponding data models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `channels` field, you can provide a map of different channels the application communicates with during runtime. The `channels` represent the communication pathways through which messages are exchanged. You can specify their purpose, address, and the expected message formats for communication. Consumers of the specific API can understand the supported message-based interactions and the corresponding data models.
```

> Some of the fields of individual `channels` field are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key components within the `channels` field include:
```

Here's a visual representation of the `channels` field and its properties:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[channel]
  B(address)
  C(title)
  D(description)
  E(messages)
  H(parameters)
  J(servers)
  M(bindings)
  P(tags)
  R(externalDocs)

  A -->B
  A --> C
  A --> D
  A --> E
  A --> H
  A --> J
  A --> M
  A --> P
  A --> R
```

Below is an example of of the `channels` field with one channel:
```yaml
channels:
  user:
    address: 'users.{userId}'
    title: Users channel
    description: This channel is used to exchange messages about user events.
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
      userCompletedOrder:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userCompletedOrder'
    parameters:
      userId:
        $ref: '#/components/parameters/userId'
    servers:
      - $ref: '#/servers/production'
    bindings:
      amqp:
        is: queue
        queue:
          exclusive: true
    tags:
      - name: user
        description: User-related messages
    externalDocs:
      description: 'Find more info here'
      url: 'https://example.com'
```

### `operations` field

> With the `operations` field you can describe all the operations the application performs. Use it to provide a clear and structured definition of the operations. Specify if your application is sending or receiving messages, and what is the purpose of such operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `operations` field is used to comprehensively outline the various operations performed by the application. It offers a clear, structured description, detailing whether the application sends or receives messages and the specific purpose of each operation.
```

> Some of the fields of individual `operations` field are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key components within the `operations` field include:
```

- `action`: Use `send` type when it's expected that the application will send a message to the given channel, and `receive` type when the application should expect to receive messages from the given channel.
- `channel`: A `$ref` pointer to the definition of the channel in which this operation is performed. 
- `title`:	A human-friendly title for the operation.
- `summary`: A short summary of what the operation is about.
- `description`: A verbose explanation of the operation. 
- `security`:	A declaration of which security schemes are associated with this operation.
- `tags`:	A list of tags for logical grouping and categorization of operations.
- `externalDocs`:	Additional external documentation for this operation.
- `bindings`	A map where the keys describe the name of the protocol and the values describe protocol-specific definitions for the operation.
- `traits`:	A list of traits to apply to the operation object. 
- `messages`:	A list of $ref pointers pointing to the supported Message Objects that can be processed by this operation.

> - `reply`:	The definition of the reply in a request-reply operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `reply`:	The definition of the reply in a reply/request operation.
```

  A --> I
  A --> J
  A --> K
  A --> L
  L --> M
  L --> N
```

Below is an example of of the `operations` field with one operation:
```yaml
operations:
  sendUserSignUp:
    action: send
    title: User sign up
    summary: Action to sign a user up.
    description: A longer description
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/user'
    security:
      - type: oauth2
        description: The oauth security descriptions
        flows:
          clientCredentials:
            tokenUrl: 'https://example.com/api/oauth/dialog'
            availableScopes:
              'subscribe:auth_revocations': Scope required for authorization revocation topic
        scopes:
          - 'subscribe:auth_revocations'
    tags:
      - name: user
      - name: signup
      - name: register
    bindings:
      amqp:
        ack: false
    traits:
      - $ref: "#/components/operationTraits/kafka"
    messages:
      - $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
    reply:
      address:
        location: '$message.header#/replyTo'
      channel:
        $ref: '#/channels/userSignupReply'
      messages:
        - $ref: '#/channels/userSignupReply/messages/userSignedUpReply'
```

### `components` field

> With `components` field you can define a set of reusable structures or definitions that can be used across different parts of your document. Information provide under `components` are not part of the API unless they are explicitly referenced from properties outside the `components` field. Use it to not repeat yourself and improve maintainability of the document. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `components` field allows for the definition of reusable structures or definitions applicable across various sections of your document. Items detailed within `components` only become part of the API when explicitly referenced by properties external to this field. Utilize it to avoid repetition and enhance the document's maintainability.
```

> Some of the fields of individual `channels` field are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key components of the `channels` field include:
```

> - `schemas`: An object to hold reusable [Schema Object](/docs/reference/specification/latest#schemaObject). 
> - `servers`: An object to hold reusable [Server Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#serverObject).
> - `channels`: An object to hold reusable [Channel Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#channelObject).
> - `operations`: An object to hold reusable [Operation Item Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#operationObject).
> - `messages`: An object to hold reusable [Messages Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#messageObject).
> - `securitySchemes`: An object to hold reusable [Security Scheme Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#securitySchemeObject).
> - `serverVariables`: An object to hold reusable [Server Variable Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#serverVariableObject).
> - `parameters`: Contains reusable [Parameter Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#parameterObject) that can be used in various parts of the AsyncAPI document.
> - `correlationIds`: An object to hold reusable [Correlation ID Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#correlationIdObject).
> - `replies`: An object to hold reusable [Operation Reply Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#operationReplyObject).
> - `replyAddresses`: An object to hold reusable [Operation Reply Address Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#operationReplyAddressObject).
> - `externalDocs`: An object to hold reusable [External Documentation Objects](docs/reference/specification/latest#externalDocumentationObject).
> - `tags`: An object to hold reusable [Tag Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#tagObject).
> - `operationTraits`: An object to hold reusable [Operation Trait Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#operationTraitObject).
> - `messageTraits`: Represents common traits or characteristics that can be applied to messages or hold reusable [Message Trait Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#messageTraitObject).
> - `serverBindings`: An object to hold reusable [Server Bindings Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#serverBindingsObject).
> - `channelBindings`: An object to hold reusable [Channel Bindings Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#channelBindingsObject).
> - `operationBindings`: An object to hold reusable [Operation Bindings Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#operationBindingsObject).
> - `messageBindings`: An object to hold reusable [Message Bindings Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#messageBindingsObject).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `schemas`: An object to hold the reusable [Schema Object](/docs/reference/specification/latest#schemaObject). 
- `servers`: An object to hold the reusable [Server Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#serverObject).
- `channels`: An object to hold the reusable [Channel Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#channelObject).
- `operations`: An object to hold the reusable [Operation Item Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#operationObject).
- `messages`: An object to hold the reusable [Messages Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#messageObject).
- `securitySchemes`: An object to hold the reusable [Security Scheme Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#securitySchemeObject).
- `serverVariables`: An object to hold the reusable [Server Variable Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#serverVariableObject).
- `parameters`: Contains reusable [Parameter Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#parameterObject) that can be used in various parts of the AsyncAPI document.
- `correlationIds`: An object to hold the reusable [Correlation ID Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#correlationIdObject).
- `replies`: An object to hold the reusable [Operation Reply Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#operationReplyObject).
- `replyAddresses`: An object to hold the reusable [Operation Reply Address Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#operationReplyAddressObject).
- `externalDocs`: An object to hold the reusable [External Documentation Objects](docs/reference/specification/latest#externalDocumentationObject).
- `tags`: An object to hold the reusable [Tag Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#tagObject).
- `operationTraits`: An object to hold the reusable [Operation Trait Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#operationTraitObject).
- `messageTraits`: Represents common traits or characteristics that can be applied to messages or hold reusable [Message Trait Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#messageTraitObject).
- `serverBindings`: An object to hold the reusable [Server Bindings Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#serverBindingsObject).
- `channelBindings`: An object to hold the reusable [Channel Bindings Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#channelBindingsObject).
- `operationBindings`: An object to hold the reusable [Operation Bindings Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#operationBindingsObject).
- `messageBindings`: An object to hold the reusable [Message Bindings Objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#messageBindingsObject).
```

  H(operations)
  I(securitySchemes)
  J(tags)
  K(operationTraits)
  L(channels)
  M(serverBindings)
  N(channelBindings)
  O(operationBindings)
  R(messageBindings)
  P(externalDocs)
  U(parameters)
  W(correlationIds)
  Y(messageTraits)

  A --> B
  A --> C
  A --> H
  A --> G
  A --> D
  A --> L
  A --> U
  A --> P
  A --> I
  A --> W
  A --> Y
  A --> K
  A --> J
  A --> E
  A --> F
  A --> M
  A --> N
  A --> O
  A --> R
```

Here's a code example of the components object in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml
components:

  schemas:
    Category:
      type: object
      properties:
        id:
          type: integer
          format: int64
    AvroExample:
      schemaFormat: application/vnd.apache.avro+json;version=1.9.0
      schema:
        $ref: 'path/to/user-create.avsc/#UserCreate'

  servers:
    development:
      host: '{stage}.in.mycompany.com'
      protocol: amqp
      description: RabbitMQ broker
      bindings:
        $ref: '#/components/serverBindings/devAmqp'
      variables:
        stage:
          $ref: '#/components/serverVariables/stage'
      security:
        - $ref: '#/components/securitySchemes/oauth'

  serverVariables:
    stage:
      default: demo

>       description: This value is assigned by the service provider, in this example `mycompany.com`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description: This value is assigned by the service provider in this example of `mycompany.com`
```
